# Ginan a GNSS Data Analysis Software Toolkit

## Overview

*Ginan* is a software toolkit being developed to processes GNSS observations for geodetic 
and navigation applications.  

We currently support the processing of:

* the American Global Positioning System (`GPS`)
* the Russian GLONASS system ('GLONASS')
* The European Gallileo system ('Gallileo')
* the Chinese Navigation Satellite System ('Beidou`); and
* The Japanese QZSS develop system ('QZSS')

We are actively developing Ginan to have the following capabilities and features:

* Precise Orbit & Clock determination of GNSS satellites (GNSS POD).
* Precise Point Positioning (PPP) of GNSS stations in network and individual mode.
* Real-Time corrections for PPP users.
* Analyse full, single and multi-frequency, multi-GNSS data.
* Delivering atmospheric products such as ionosphere and troposphere models.
* Servicing a wide range of users and receiver types.
* Delivering outputs usable and accessible by non-experts.
* Providing both a real-time and off-line processing capability.
* Delivering both position and integrity information.
* Routinely produce IGS final, rapid, ultra-rapid and real-time (RT) products. 

The software is broken into two main components:

* the Network Parameter Estimation Algorithm (`PEA`); and 
* the Precise Orbit Determination (`POD`).

## PEA

The `PEA` component is intended to be run in real-time or post processing modes using  `RINEX v2` or `RINEX v3` 
observations, or `RTCM3` real-time streams. The `PEA` can be used to process GNSS data in either a network mode or user mode.

In `network mode`, the PEA uses undifferenced ionosphere free (IF) linear combinations of GNSS observations to obtain 
estimates of GNSS rerceiver positions receiver clocks, receiver zentih tropospheric delay and delay gradients, satellite 
orbits, satellite clocks and earth orientation parameters. 

In `user mode`, the PEA uses undifferenced ionosphere free (IF) linear combinations of GNSS observations and the
Precise Point Positioning (PPP) methodology which can take in orbit and clock products either from a publicly
available sources such as the `IGS`, or from those generated by the `PEA network mode`, to obtain receiver coordinates and 
tropospheric delay and delay gradient estimates.

The `PEA` has been largely based upon the freely available `rtklib` as a starting point; it is our intention to break
away from the `rtklib` with a complete set of our own geophysical modelling routines as the development of the package
progresses further. The routines have been written in `C and C++`.

## POD

The Precise Orbit Determination (POD) component provides an integreated reference orbit for GNSS satellites. These orbits can be 
used for estimtion of updated orbital model parameters using the Ginan PEA module.

The POD reference orbit is generated by integrating a orbital state vector according to the equations of orbital motion.
The orbital state vector is estimated by fitting an orbital model contianing both dynamic gravitational force elements
(satelllite position and velocity) and non-dynamic solar radiation pressure force elements) to an a priori orbital trajectory 
described by either the GNSS broadcast ephemeris of some other initial orbit described in a .sp3 format.

The POD uses the variational equation approach is used to integrate the partial derivatives that enable the PEA to update the 
satellite orbital trajectories using GNSS tracking data in the PEA network module.

 
